---
park: Rocky Mountain National Park
state: CO
trail: Green Mountain trailhead to Big Meadows and Adams Falls
distance:  4
base: 8805
gain: 740
activity: hiking
info: https://www.nps.gov/romo/planyourvisit/hikes.htm
date: 2016-07-24
lat: "40.30738"
lon: "-105.84109"
---
There are many moose and Elk on the west side of the park. We saw at least three moose on this hike, one was laying in the grass, the other two were a mom and a calf. When we turned around, just after the Big Meadows intersection, we saw the mom and calf again about 40 feet from the trailhead.

A group of hikers just behind us on the trail demonstrated exactly what not to do when encountering a moose. We told the first hiker, a man, there was a moose up ahead and he said "well let's scare 'em out, then!" He then proceeded to click his hiking sticks together and shout at the moose, attracting the calf and alarming the cow who's ears went back and charged him. The second hiker, presumably his partner, caught up with him and he continued to try and scare the moose. It charged again at both hikers this time.

Nearly every source of information has this to say about moose on the trail (from [the National Park Service](https://www.nps.gov/wrst/planyourvisit/moose-safety.htm)):

> If you do find yourself close to a moose
>
> * If it hasn't detected you yet, keep it that way.
> * If it knows you're there, talk to it softly and move away slowly.
> * Don't be aggressive - you want to convince the moose that you aren't a threat.
> * If you think the moose is going to charge you, take cover or run away.
> * Watch for signs that the moose is upset
> * If its ears are laid back and hackles are up it is likely to charge. Most of the time, when a moose charges it is a 'bluff', or warning for you to get back - a warning you should take very seriously! Once a moose bluff charges it is already agitated. If possible, get behind something solid (like a tree or a car).

This is easy to find, common advice, plastered around the park. There's no excuse to be stupid on the trails.
